when I landed in Israel I landed in Tel
Aviv and then moved to
Jerusalem but having traveled all over I
can't say with any certainty what's
going to happen all that I know is that
something big has changed and everyone I
spoke to all believe something has to
happen and they cannot return to how
things were before and that's everyone
on both sides my name is Neil Sadler and
I'm a producer with alaz English and
between us I fear that this war could
become a much larger regional
conflict I was based mainly in occupied
East Jerusalem amongst the Palestinian
community and they spoke about how the
Israeli authorities the police and the
soldiers had completely changed how they
interacted with the Palestinian
Community I didn't do anything well you
asked me for my ID I showed you my ID so
before if they had been treated badly
they could complain but after October
7th all those rules went out the window
and they were being routinely harest I
met two young men who lived in the old
city and they spoke about the collective
punishment that the Palestinians in
Jerusalem face every time there's a
flare up intentions or in this case the
war and there had been a real increase
in the surveillance of what they were
saying online no one could post anything
that was prop Palestinian no one could
even like a post no one felt they could
speak to me about what was happening
seeing some of these young guys I
understood how they must felt to be
pushed up against the wall their legs
spread to be told things about their
their mothers or their sisters um to
have their phone search to be insulted
but not be able to react to it I
definitely felt how humiliating that
must have
been when I first arrived I went South
towards the Garen border there there
were very chaotic scenes Israel had Co
up thousands and thousands of
[Music]
reservists the noise was relentless
there was a continuous sound of missiles
and an aerial bombardment that Israel
was launching on Gaza but you would also
occasionally hear missiles come the
other
way now in the north things were very
different Israelis I speak to there was
a real fear of hisel almost everyone I
met in in a town called Kat shimone were
armed with assault rifles and also with
pistols on their hips it was an eerie
feeling everyone was preparing for
something the fear was much different to
the South they were exchanging Rockets
they perhaps thought the hisbah was more
of a force to be reckoned with in the
Southeast in theat they fear an attack
from Yemen now across the Red Sea Yemen
have fired missiles and drones at elat a
US warship has had to take those out the
Israeli Air Force scrambled when that
happened so as I traveled around all
over I understood this had the potential
to become a much larger regional
conflict covering this uh this war um
compared to other ones that I've covered
is incredibly incredibly
[Music]
sensitive
I feel anything that is said will be
criticized by someone and I also feel
that operating in his Ro if you say
anything that's considered sympathetic
to Palestine there will be a strong
reaction I feel I have to watch what I
say at all times um but I I believe it's
important to continue to say how people
are feeling because especially the
Palestinians I spoke to say they can't
express themselves they said for 75
years they they' never experienced
anything like this before they could say
something to a journalist but now
nothing nothing will go back to how it
was
before